---
layout: post
title: "CSS Dev Conf 2014"
---

Totally unfiltered and unedited notes from CSS Dev Conf 2014.

## Flying Lessons: Rebecca Murphey

Learning how to be permanently new.

### aviate, navigate, communicate

>Each pilot in command shall, before beginning a flight, become familiar with **all vailable information**  concerning that flight.

Impractical in software development. Could spend the rest of your life obtaining all information about a particular problem.

What will I be missing if I plow ahead without that information?

### Trust your instruments

When you get disoriented, have some tactics to reorient yourself.

**The reduced test case**: once you reduce that problem to its simplest form and it still fails, you've reoriented yourself. help!

**Getting to know your dev tools**: They're your safe place. Or should be, anyway.

### Climb, confess, communicate.

1. Climb - Get a better view of the situation. Go for a walk. Go read the logs.
2. Confess - Acknowlege you've got a problem and need help.
3. Communicate - Actually do it!
  - Put the burden on the asker to articulate what the issue is. Don't just give the answer.

## Goodbye Floats! Hello CSS Flex & Grid Layouts: Kenzey Conrad

Float layouts solved many problems. Remember table layouts? 

It's time to use flexbox. Obviously there are going to be issues using IE8 or 9. And Opera mini.

`display: flex;` allows you to layout content into columns and rows, in any direction!

Visual layout can be independent of source and speech order.

### Grid Layouts

To view grid layouts in chrome, visit `chrome://flags` and enable experimental web features.

## Style Guides in 2015


